<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>My recordings</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body0">
    <h1 class="h1">Music &#38; Poetry</h1><h2 class="h2">My recordings</h2>

    <p class="normal0">In order to record a few songs for this site, I had to first learn how. I really don&#8217;t particularly like learning anything new, unless it&#8217;s statistical, since my brain cells are rapidly diminishing. But, with my friend Todd educating me and Yahoo&#x27;s excellent service, I figured out how to add any song. The only downside is that the template I used for this site is different from <a href="http://sportsinreview.com/blog/">Sports In Review</a> site. The youtube video I learned from assumes I used the SIR template (Wordpress). The songs cannot be stored on Site Solution (this site). Consequently, these songs are stored on SIR. If the day comes when SIR is no longer in existence, then even if this site still is, the songs won&#x27;t work because they are linked to SIR.</p>
    <p class="normal0">I had previously recorded a song on a whim in 2006. When at Todd&#x27;s house, he stuck a mic in front of me and played the instrumental for &#8220;Don&#8217;t Let Me Be Lonely Tonight&#x201C; by James Taylor. I knew every word, so I sang it in one take. He played with it on the computer and this is what we ended up with (see below). That was when I was 53 years of age.</p>
    <p class="normal0">I doubt if anyone sings as well at 59++ (July 14, 2013) as they do at 53 (much less younger), so when I decided I wanted to add a couple more songs to this site besides just one take for DLMBLT, I also realized that I wasn&#8217;t going to be able to sing as well as I had when I was younger. That kind of sucks, but what can I say? What can I do? It&#8217;s a microcosm of the deterioration of the body and the mind.</p>
    <p class="normal0">I went to a local studio and worked up two more songs with a talented musician/ engineer (George). I&#x27;ll tell you one thing, when he stripped away the instrumental and I just listened to the voice track - alone and naked... I couldn&#x27;t help but think that you can make a turd look exactly like a tootsie roll, but it&#x27;s still a turd! I did the best I could considering my best wasn&#8217;t anywhere near what my best used to be.</p>
    <p class="normal0">Even so, I think I did ok and the most enjoyable was Lady (Kenny Rogers). It&#x27;s always been the song I&#x27;ve liked singing more than any other.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Don&#x27;t Let Me be Lonely Tonight - James Taylor (1972)<br/>recorded 2004 at age 51</p>
    <p class="normal0"><audio src="../audio/Dont-Let-Me-Be-Lonely-Tonight-Martin-Manley.mp3" controls="controls"><span class="normal9">[ Your device does not seem to support Embedded Audio ]</span></audio></p>

    <p class="normal0">Handy Man - James Taylor (1977)<br/>recorded 2013 at age 59</p>
    <p class="normal0"><audio src="../audio/Handy-Man.mp3" controls="controls"><span class="normal9">[ Your device does not seem to support Embedded Audio ]</span></audio></p>

    <p class="normal0">Lady - Kenny Rogers (1980)<br/>recorded 2013 at age 59</p>
    <p class="normal0"><audio src="../audio/Lady.mp3" controls="controls"><span class="normal9">[ Your device does not seem to support Embedded Audio ]</span></audio></p>
  </body>
</html>
