<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Plate Production and PLATE PERFORMANCE</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body0">
    <h1 class="h1">Sports</h1><h2 class="h2">Plate Production and PLATE PERFORMANCE</h2>
    
    <p class="normal0">The truth is that there are a thousand formulas for measuring baseball player&#8217;s production and performance and there are probably multiple ways of explaining or defining the difference between &#8220;production&#x201C; and &#8220;performance&#x201C;. Nevertheless, having invented <a href="221.09-sports--efficiency_rating.xhtml">Efficiency Rating</a> for basketball, which is an all-encompassing comprehensive stat to measure the overall value of a player, I decided I could do the same in baseball.</p>
    <p class="normal0">Plate Production (PP) and Plate Performance (PPF) are stats that describe how good is an individual hitter. There are other such formulas. For example, OPS is a common formula for evaluating how effective is a hitter. But, you have to realize that OPS is not even as good as a far less known, far less popular alternative (GPA).</p>
    <p class="normal0">And, trust me, there are others. For the sake of this site and this category, I&#8217;m only going to discuss Plate Performance against OPS since it is somewhat of a gold standard for overall hitting.</p>
    <p class="normal0">I will get back to Plate Performance (PPF) and OPS shortly, but first let&#8217;s look at Plate Production (PP).</p>
    <p class="normal0">The difference between PP and PPF is that PP is cumulative while PPF is a ratio . In sports there are cumulative stats &#8211; like Home Runs or Stolen Bases and there are ratio stats like Earned Run Average (Earned Runs / Innings Pitched x 9) or Batting Average (Hits / At-Bats).</p>
    <p class="normal0">PP is a cumulative stat. As I say, baseball has a lot of these for a single season or a career. Home Runs, Hits, Doubles, Stolen Bases, Strike Outs, Wins, Errors, Walks and many more.</p>
    <p class="normal0">To the best of my knowledge of all the all-encompassing stats to describe a hitter&#8217;s overall value, they are all ratio stats like OPS and none of them are cumulative. That&#8217;s what makes Plate Performance special.</p>
    <p class="normal0">Suppose I give you these two players&#8217; stats and ask you to tell me which is superior. Bold numbers are superior between the two players.</p>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Player</th>
                <th>AB</th>
                <th>H</th>
                <th>2B</th>
                <th>3B</th>
                <th>HR</th>
                <th>RBI</th>
                <th>R</th>
                <th>SB</th>
                <th>CS</th>
                <th>BB</th>
                <th>SO</th>
                <th>HBP</th>
                <th>GDP</th>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Smith</td>
                <td>501</td>
                <td>134</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">12</td>
                <td>0</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">16</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">114</td>
                <td>86</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">2</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">2</td>
                <td>62</td>
                <td>110</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">7</td>
                <td>26</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Jones</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">467</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">141</td>
                <td>10</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">5</td>
                <td>11</td>
                <td>60</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">102</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">34</td>
                <td>8</td>
                <td>31</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">77</td>
                <td>1</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">18</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    <p class="normal0">I can tell you right now&#x2026; you don&#8217;t have the faintest idea which is superior because 1) you don&#8217;t know their names &#8211; which means you can&#8217;t rely on your bias and 2) there simply is too much data to absorb and wrap your mind around to say definitively which is better.</p>
    <p class="normal0">Besides, irrespective of which of the two you answered, you would have been wrong. I made it such that both players ended up with a PP of +70. Now, isn&#x27;t that a thousand times easier to comprehend than trying to digest all of that data into one rating in your head for each player and then to come to a conclusion about which is superior?</p>
    <p class="normal0">The league average PP for all hitters is around +4. For pitchers, it&#8217;s about -9. However, for all players combined, the average is roughly zero &#8211; which is just pure coincidence &#8211; but a beautiful fact or an elegant statistic regardless.</p>
    <p class="normal3"><em class="em0">PP = Plate Production. Total Bases + Hit by pitch + Walks + Steals + RBI + Runs &#8211; Outs - Caught Stealing - Double Plays Hit Into.</em></p>
    <p class="normal0">The point is that to the degree a player is greater than zero, he&#8217;s productive. To the degree he&#8217;s less than zero, he&#8217;s unproductive.</p>
    <p class="normal0">As you can imagine, the more a good player plays, the higher his production will be. The more a bad player plays, the lower his production will be.</p>
    <p class="normal0">For 2012 in major league baseball, the top-3 by Plate Production were Mike Trout (+260), Ryan Braun (+254) and Miguel Cabrera (+252). The MVP race in the AL was between Trout and Cabrera. The MVP race in the NL was a battle between Braun and Buster Posey (winner). But, keep in mind that Posey is a catcher and catchers are given more weight by voters because of how hard their job is. In addition, Posey&#8217;s Giants won 94 games to Braun&#8217;s Brewers with 83. And, Posey was coming off an injury season &#8211; which gave him sympathy votes while Braun was the NL MVP the year before &#8211; which probably took some votes away. And, finally, Braun was suspected of using performance-enhancing drugs (which later was verified). Even so, the voting was close.</p>
    <p class="normal0">The point is that PP does a great job of identifying the players (by hitting and base running) that are the most productive and the reason is because the formula is good, but also because it is &#8220;cumulative&#x201C; &#8211; and production (as well as Most Valuable) is mostly a function of cumulative stats versus ratio stats.</p>
    <p class="normal0">The comparable ratio stat to PP is Plate Performance (PPF). Going back to 2012 again, the top-3 by PPF were J.C. Boscan (.360), David Ortiz (.360) and Joey Votto (.356). You should be asking what happened to Trout, Braun and Cabrera?</p>
    <p class="normal0">Well, the problem is that when using ratio stats and no minimum number of at-bats, you get weird things. Boscan only had 10 at-bats! Ortis only had 324 AB and Votto 374 AB. Had all three of them played more, they might have challenged for the MVP.</p>
    <p class="normal0">Baseball is largely about ratio stats, but if you don&#8217;t play enough games, it&#8217;s about cumulative stats only. So, let&#8217;s say we want a minimum of 450 ABs, then the top-3 are Cabrera (.355), Braun (.350) and Trout (.340). All the sudden, there are the three players we were looking for PP &#8211; just in reverse order.</p>
    <p class="normal3"><em class="em0">PPF = Plate Performance. (Total Bases + .4 singles + Walks + Hit by pitch) / Plate Appearances / 2.</em></p>
    <p class="normal0">There really isn&#8217;t anything to compare my cumulative stat (Plate Production) to that I&#8217;m aware of. However, Plate Performance is different. I can compare it to OPS for example, and so I shall.</p>
    <p class="normal0">OPS is the sum of On-Base Percentage and Slugging Percentage &#8211; two common ratio stats. OPS means On-base Plus Slugging. It&#8217;s flawed to some degree because it gives equal weight to OBP and SLG when in reality, OBP should have more weight (about 80% more) than SLG. But, as a back of the envelope stat that is simple to calculate (if you have OBP and SLG), OPS is not bad.</p>
    <p class="normal0">In order to compare OPS to PPF, I need to divide OPS by three and PPF by two. That makes both stats about equivalent to something we can appreciate aesthetically. What I mean is that we are used to thinking that .400 is historical, .300 is good, .200 sucks. Those preconceptions are based upon batting average, but we&#8217;ve heard those numbers a bazillion times and so we know what they mean. By dividing OPS by three and PPF by two, it puts them in the same range that we are comfortable with.</p>
    <p class="normal0">So, let&#8217;s apply a minimum number of at-bats to 2012. Let&#8217;s say 450. Here are the top-10 in the major leagues by both PPF/2 and OPS/3.</p>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Player</th>
                <th>Team</th>
                <th>League</th>
                <th>PPF</th>
                <th>Rank</th>
                <th>OPS</th>
                <th>Rank</th>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Miguel Cabrera</td>
                <td>Detroit</td>
                <td>AL</td>
                <td>.355</td>
                <td>1</td>
                <td>.333</td>
                <td>1</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Ryan Braun</td>
                <td>Milwaukee</td>
                <td>NL</td>
                <td>.350</td>
                <td>2</td>
                <td>.329</td>
                <td>2</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Mike Trout</td>
                <td>LA Angels</td>
                <td>AL</td>
                <td>.340</td>
                <td>3</td>
                <td>.321</td>
                <td>3</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Andrew McCutchen</td>
                <td>Pittsburgh</td>
                <td>NL</td>
                <td>.337</td>
                <td>4</td>
                <td>.318</td>
                <td>5</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Edwin Encarnacion</td>
                <td>Toronto</td>
                <td>AL</td>
                <td>.335</td>
                <td>5</td>
                <td>.314</td>
                <td>6</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Buster Posey</td>
                <td>San Francisco</td>
                <td>NL</td>
                <td>.334</td>
                <td>6</td>
                <td>.319</td>
                <td>4</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Josh Hamilton</td>
                <td>Texas</td>
                <td>AL</td>
                <td>.332</td>
                <td>7</td>
                <td>.310</td>
                <td>8</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Prince Fielder</td>
                <td>Detroit</td>
                <td>AL</td>
                <td>.331</td>
                <td>8</td>
                <td>.313</td>
                <td>7</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Robinson Cano</td>
                <td>NY Yankees</td>
                <td>AL</td>
                <td>.329</td>
                <td>9</td>
                <td>.310</td>
                <td>9</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Adrian Beltre</td>
                <td>Texas</td>
                <td>AL</td>
                <td>.328</td>
                <td>10</td>
                <td>.307</td>
                <td>10</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    <p class="normal0">You can see the top-10 are the same. There is very little deviation between them. So, naturally you should ask&#x2026; why have PPF when OPS is readily available?</p>
    <p class="normal0">The only answer I can give for that, other than the fact that I invented it, is that PPF more closely corresponds to PP and PP is great. This correlation is more apparent beyond the top-10, but let&#8217;s look at the same top-10 players and include PP&#8217;s ranking.</p>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Player</th>
                <th>PPF</th>
                <th>Rank</th>
                <th>OPS</th>
                <th>Rank</th>
                <th>PP</th>
                <th>Rank</th>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Miguel Cabrera</td>
                <td>.355</td>
                <td>1</td>
                <td>.333</td>
                <td>1</td>
                <td>252</td>
                <td>3</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Ryan Braun</td>
                <td>.350</td>
                <td>2</td>
                <td>.329</td>
                <td>2</td>
                <td>254</td>
                <td>2</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Mike Trout</td>
                <td>.340</td>
                <td>3</td>
                <td>.321</td>
                <td>3</td>
                <td>260</td>
                <td>1</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">Andrew.McCutchen</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.337</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">4</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.318</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">5</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">206</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">6</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">Edwin Encarnacion</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.335</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">5</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.314</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">6</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">214</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">4</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">Buster Posey</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.334</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">6</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.319</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">4</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">172</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">9</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">Josh Hamilton</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.332</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">7</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.310</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">8</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">212</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">5</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">Prince Fielder</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.331</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">8</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">.313</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">7</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">183</td>
                <td style="font-weight: bold;">7</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Robinson Cano</td>
                <td>.329</td>
                <td>9</td>
                <td>.310</td>
                <td>9</td>
                <td>160</td>
                <td>10</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>Adrian Beltre</td>
                <td>.328</td>
                <td>10</td>
                <td>.307</td>
                <td>10</td>
                <td>160</td>
                <td>11</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    <p class="normal0">In the five cases where PPF and OPS disagree (<strong class="strong0">bolded</strong>), PP agrees more with PPF three times and OPS twice.</p>
    <p class="normal0">Do I have a problem with anyone using OPS. Of course not. I use it, but most of the reason I use it is because it&#8217;s so readily available and sortable either on MLB.com or BaseballReference. But, I also know that OPS is not technically correct because it undervalues OBP. Even so, as we can see, it still tends to do a good job.</p>
    <p class="normal0">Whether PPF ever catches on or not is not a big deal. Clearly OPS works fine. But, PP should catch on because there simply isn&#8217;t a cumulative comprehensive all-encompassing stat for major league baseball players that I&#8217;m aware of&#x2026; and there should be.</p>
  </body>
</html>
