Sports and Race

I want to begin this discussion by stating emphatically that I have zero bias regarding black or white or Hispanic players in sports. Besides, if I did… or you do since I don’t matter anymore… it would be an outdated bias due to the fact that a larger and larger percentage of births are by mixed races. Someday, we’ll all be just different percentages of the same mutt!

Many of my all-time favorite sports stars are white and many are black. I only wrote about one specific favorite player on this blog – Kevin Johnson (see category to the left). He’s black. So, I don’t want to hear anything about me having a bias when it comes to color of an athlete. Of course, I won’t hear it anyway since I’m dead, but… I’ll make sure your doors creak the rest of your life.

I’m not going to write a single new word after this paragraph. The following is a compilation of letters-to-the-editor that I wrote in the 1980’s and 1990’s as well as one magazine artice. I was going through that file which contained dozens of letters that were printed in either the Topeka Capital Journal or the Kansas City Star/Times as well as articles I’ve written for magazines. I thought they were all good, but there wasn’t a place on this site for most of them. Since several involved race, I put them in the same file and decided to place them here. Posted chronologically.

Jimmy The Greek, 1988

RACE, 1989

OJ Justice, 1995

                    Standing for the National Anthem, 1996

                                        

