BBH Quotes

BASKETBALL HEAVEN is thorough, fresh and occasionally brilliant. Manley's systematic analysis of basketball from the time of George Mikan to the present is unlike anything I've ever seen about the sport. His research is massive, his writing lucid and his approach novel.  -- Bill James, Baseball Abstract

I think Martin Manley is Bill James' pen name -- Dan Patrick, CNN Sports

Because of its original perspective, BASKETBALL HEAVEN provides statistical insights and food for thought which will enhance the enjoyment of the game for even the most devoted NBA fan. -- David Stern, NBA Commissioner

Martin Manley's BASKETBALL HEAVEN is an enjoyable, informative and useful compilation of NBA teams, players and statistics. A must read for the serious fan. -- Rick Barry, WTBS Sports

BASKETBALL HEAVEN broke new ground in looking at the game we love. The way we will look at pro basketball in the next century began with THIS book. -- Wayne Patterson, Basketball Hall of Fame

If Martin Manley played hoops like he researches the game, he'd be Larry Bird, Magic Johnson and Michael Jordan put together. Heaven is my bible. I wish I could memorize it. -- Pat O'Brien, CBS Sports

At that time of year when I'm about to get ready for basketball again, Martin Manley's BASKETBALL HEAVEN arrives and primes me for another great year. It truly has become the basketball bible. -- Frank Layden, Utah Jazz

BASKETBALL HEAVEN is well thought out, very well organized. The type of information not found anywhere else. Basketball has needed a book like this for a long time and Manley finally gives it to us. Some of his facts were revelations to me and I consider myself an expert. It is one of the main refrence books I use on a regular basis. -- David DuPree, USA Today

I love BASKETBALL HEAVEN. It's indispensable for the serious fan. A must for every library. -- Bob Ley, ESPN

The facts and figures are presented in a way which gives the true fanatic more than any box score. Martin Manley isn't satisfied with the what. He takes great pains to develop the why. I wouldn't dream of starting any season without BASKETBALL HEAVEN. -- Fred Hickman, CNN Sports

If you like pro basketball and you love statistics, this is a don't miss book. Manley combines the keen insight and understanding of an expert analyst with the sheer love of a pure fan. -- Alex Saschare, NBA Offices

