<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>%%title%%</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="normal0">Other SUICIDES</p>

    <p class="normal0">From Wikipedia</p>

    <p class="normal0">Others who have left suicide notes. Go to this link.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Others who have committed suicide. See below.</p>

    <p class="normal0">A</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Robert Adams, Jr. (1906), congressman from Pennsylvania, shot himself after heavy losses in stock speculation</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Clodius Albinus (197), Roman emperor, killed himself after a defeat in battle</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Michael Alfonso, a.k.a. Mike Awesome (2007), American professional wrestler, hanging</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prince Alfred of Edinburgh (1899), member of the British Royal Family, shot himself</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jeff Alm (1993), American NFL player, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Forrest Howard Anderson (1989), Governor of Montana, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mark Antony (30 BC), Roman politician and general, by sword.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Marshall Applewhite (1997), American leader of the Heaven&#x27;s Gate religious cult, overdose</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Diane Arbus (1971), American photographer, overdosed on pills and slashed wrists</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Edwin Armstrong (1954), American inventor of FM radio, jumped from a 13th floor window</p>

    <p class="normal0">B</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Nikki Bacharach (2007), Daughter of Burt Bacharach and Angie Dickinson, suffocated using plastic bag and helium</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; James Robert Baker (1997), American writer</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; José Manuel Balmaceda (1891), President of Chile, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Robert Hayward Barlow (1951), American writer and anthropologist, barbiturate overdose</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jovan Belcher (2012), American football player, shot himself after killing his girlfriend</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Chris Benoit (2007), Canadian professional wrestler, hanged himself after murdering his wife and son.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Ludwig Boltzmann (1906), Austrian physicist famous for thermodynamics and the atomic theory, hanging</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jeremy Michael Boorda (1996), Chief of Naval Operations, US Navy</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jonathan Brandis (2003), American actor, hanging</p>

    <p class="normal0">C</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Wallace Carothers (1937), American inventor of nylon, cyanide poisoning.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Christine Chubbuck (1974), television reporter, shot herself during a live news broadcast</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Cleopatra (30 BC), Queen of Egypt, inducing a snake to bite herself.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Kurt Cobain (1994), American rock singer (Nirvana), shotgun wound to the head.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Don Cornelius (2012), American television show host and producer, best known as the creator and host of the nationally syndicated dance/music franchise Soul Train. Shot himself in Los Angeles, California.</p>

    <p class="normal0">D</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Brad Delp (2007), American rock musician (Boston), carbon monoxide poisoning in his bathroom using two charcoal grills.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; R. Budd Dwyer (1987) American politician who shot himself in the mouth during a press conference.</p>

    <p class="normal0">E</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; George Eastman (1932), American inventor and philanthropist, gunshot to the heart.</p>

    <p class="normal0">F</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Moni Fanan (2009), Team manager of the Israeli basketball team Maccabi Tel-Aviv during the years 1992&ndash;2008, hanging.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Robert FitzRoy (1865), English meteorologist, surveyor and hydrographer, who captained the HMS Beagle during Charles Darwin&#x27;s famous voyage.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vince Foster (1993) Deputy White House Counsel to Bill Clinton.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Anton Furst (1991), English production designer who created the Gotham City and Batmobile used in the 1989 Batman film, as well as the look of Planet Hollywood, jumped from an eighth story window.</p>

    <p class="normal0">G</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Spalding Gray (2004), American actor, playwright, screenwriter, performance artist, and monologuist; jumped off Staten Island Ferry.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mark Green (2004), American record-setting minor league hockey star, hanged himself after being accused of stealing from a car dealership.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vincent van Gogh (1890), Dutch Post-Impressionist, shot himself.</p>

    <p class="normal0">H</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Hannibal (183&ndash;181 BC[106]), a Carthaginian military commander and tactician, poison.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Ernest Hemingway (1961), American writer and journalist, gunshot wound to the head.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Margaux Hemingway (1996); American fashion model, actress; overdose of phenobarbital.</p>

    <p class="normal0">J</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jon Nödtveidt (2007), Swedish guitarist (Dissection), gunshot.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Marcel Jacob (2009), Swedish musician.[121]</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Richard Jeni (2007), American standup comedian and actor, gunshot.</p>

    <p class="normal0">K</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Chris Kanyon (2010), American professional wrestler, overdose of anti-depressant pills.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Brian Keith (1997), American actor, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">L</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Meriwether Lewis (1809), U.S. explorer and partner of William Clark, gunshot. There is some debate as to whether his death was a suicide.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Chris Lighty (2012), American music industry executive and manager.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Roman Lyashenko (2003), Russian NHL hockey player, hanged himself with a belt.</p>

    <p class="normal0">M</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Robert M. McLane (1904), American mayor of Baltimore, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Kenny McKinley (2010), American football player, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">N</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Terry Newton (2010), English rugby league player, hanged himself</p>

    <p class="normal0">O</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Lembit Oll (1999), Estonian chess Grandmaster, jumped out of window</p>

    <p class="normal0">P</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jeret &quot;Speedy&quot; Peterson (2011), American skier, Olympic medalist; gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Freddie Prinze (1977), American actor and comedian; gunshot.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dušan Pašek (1998), Slovak ice hockey player; gunshot.</p>

    <p class="normal0">R</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Roy Raymond (1993), American founder of Victoria&#x27;s Secret, jumped off the Golden Gate Bridge.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Liam Rector (2007), U.S. poet and educator; gunshot.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Angelo Reyes (2011), Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dale Roberts (2010), English football, hanging</p>

    <p class="normal0">S</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; George Sanders (1972), Russian-born English film (All About Eve) and television actor, overdosed on five bottles of Nembutal.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Nick Santino (2012), American soap opera actor, overdosed on pills.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tony Scott (2012), English film director; jumped off the Vincent Thomas Bridge in Los Angeles.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Junior Seau (2012), American football All-Pro player, gunshot to the chest.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Del Shannon, The chart-topping rock and roll singer/songwriter Del Shannon had a massive career in the 1960s, but his star faded in the 1970s and he turned to drink. He was being treated for depression when in 1990 he shot himself with a .22-caliber rifle.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Gary Speed (2011), Welsh footballer and manager, hanging</p>

    <p class="normal0">T</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp; Hunter S. Thompson (2005), journalist, author, gunshot.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp; Alan Turing (1954), English mathematician, logician, cryptanalyst and computer scientist, eating an apple laced with cyanide</p>

    <p class="normal0">V</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Getúlio Vargas (1954), two-time President of Brazil, gunshot.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Hervé Villechaize (1993), actor known for his work on the TV series Fantasy Island, gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">W</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Bob Welch (2012), musician and former member of Fleetwood Mac, a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the chest.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Wendy O. Williams (1998), American singer songwriter (Plasmatics), gunshot</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Virginia Woolf (1941) English author, essayist, publisher, and writer of short stories; suicide by drowning</p>

    <p class="normal0">Y</p>

    <p class="normal0">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Gig Young (1978) American actor; murder-suicide.</p>


  </body>
</html>
