<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>%%title%%</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="normal0">OMG: I look 60!</p>

    <p class="normal0">I not only look 60, I think 60. I act 60... I am 60!</p>

    <p class="normal0">[Martin_Mug_5_004]</p>

    <p class="normal0">I suspect most of us think we look younger than we really are. I know I did. I&#x27;m not exactly sure how I managed to avoid looking in the mirror the last 10-15 years. I thought I looked in the mirror, but either I didn&#x27;t or else when I did, I saw only what I wanted to see. The sad reality is that my blindness must be related to vanity.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Now, that I can picture my head with a hole in it, I&#x27;m content to see myself at my real age. And, part of the reason is because I&#x27;ll never have to see myself at 70 or 80 - and that&#x27;s a good thing. And, everytime I read that last sentence in the proofreading process, I get a smile on my face!</p>

    <p class="normal0">I thought I should find a place on this site to mention Fedoras. When I was about 54, I started wearing a Fedora all the time. Ok, I didn&#x27;t wear one when I slept at night and I didn&#x27;t wear one in church. Otherwise, 100% of the time - even when home alone. They just became part of who I was. There are plenty of people whom I&#x27;ve met over the past six years and have gotten to know that have never seen me without one.</p>

    <p class="normal0">At first, I just owned a couple of Fedoras, but then I bought a couple more. And, then I guess I got infected by the female shopping gene because, despite being extremely cheap, I got up to about a dozen hats. I finally stopped at 25 when I realized I wasn&#x27;t going to be around in another 14 months (June 11, 2012). Besides, I had just about covered all the colors.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Don&#x27;t think I paid a lot, though. I did buy a couple of them for about $20, but most were in the $10 range and a few were under $5 on close-out. I would guess my entire cost was $200 or so. But, I confess it was an indulgence of sorts, so I thought I would flash a picture of myself donning a Fedora for the site. And, while I&#x27;m at it, a pile of my collection - just before I donated them.</p>

    <p class="normal0">[Martin_Mug_009]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[004]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[shoes_001]</p>

    <p class="normal0">One thing is for sure, Fedoras may have caught my eye as a fashion statement, but shoes certainly never did. I bought a pair of hush puppy type shoes in 2001. They look like suade leather - gray. They were the most comfortable shoes I ever owned and although I only wore them once or twice a week for a few years, eventually, I wore them every day. I would estimate that I&#x27;ve worn those shoes at least 2,000 times. What kind of shoe could withstand 2,000 wearings? I can answer that... a $12 Earth Shoe from Wal-Mart!</p>

    <p class="normal0">[004]</p>

    <p class="normal0">But, shoes weren&#x27;t the only thing I was cheap about. Take a look at my billfold. I had this puppy attached to my butt for the last 23 years of my life! I super-glued it back together on multiple occasions.</p>

    <p class="normal0">It became somewhat of a cold slap in the face when I realized that I had become my shoes... that I had become my billfold.</p>


  </body>
</html>
