<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>%%title%%</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="normal0">The Proposal</p>

    <p class="normal0">There were times when I was actually a romantic &ndash; although even being romantic was tempered by my analytical way of thinking. But, in this particular case, that made what I did in my proposal to my second wife (Teri) special &ndash; at least in my opinion.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I knew I wanted to propose to her in May, 1999, but I got a great idea. I decided to do it via a crossword puzzle. She loved to work CW puzzles and I thought it would be cool.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Years later in 2011, I heard of a person who got a professional CW writer to create a puzzle specifically for him and they worked it into the paper. The three answers in the puzzle were marlowe &nbsp;epstein &nbsp;willyoumarryme. I&rsquo;m not sure what the clue was for &ldquo;marlowe&rdquor; or &ldquo;espstein&rdquor;, but it worked.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Mine was cooler in my opinion. We were taking a trip from May 28th to June 1st to the Ozarks in southern Missouri. I decided I wanted to propose on June 1st &ndash; the traditional first day of summer. June is also the month in which most weddings occur. May 28th was on a Friday and June 1st was on a Tuesday &ndash; which worked out perfectly.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Teri liked doing crossword puzzles because she was good at them. She was always smart &ndash; getting her degree and MBA while working full time &ndash; straight A&rsquo;s. She then got her CPA. She doesn&rsquo;t like me bragging on her and she will probably hate this category on this site, but what can she do about it now?</p>

    <p class="normal0">Anyway, I made up a crossword puzzle (see below) that I knew she would want to do. I made it the size of USA Today&rsquo;s paper and put it in as an insert on May 28th. We took off for the Ozarks on that Friday with me driving. At some point, I handed her the USA Today. She immediately discovered the insert and started working on it.</p>

    <p class="normal0">The theme of the crossword puzzle was &ldquo;The Wedding Month&rdquor; by Lyman Mintear (anagram for Martin Manley). It stated right on it that the answers would appear June 1, 1999.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I&rsquo;m so obsessive about detail that I decided I had to make the crossword puzzle symmetrical, as all good CW puzzles are. Even cooler, the word &quot;symmetry&quot; is in the exact middle of the puzzle. Needless to say, that meant it took a lot of hours to create &ndash; especially when there was a theme and as many clues as possible had to relate in some way to love, romance, weddings, etc.</p>

    <p class="normal0">She completed the puzzle and then discarded it like she might with any other puzzle she worked on. Of course, when she got out of the car, I discretely saved it so that she would have it Tuesday to check the answers even if she didn&rsquo;t think of it herself.</p>

    <p class="normal0">When we got back to Overland Park, Kansas on June 1st and settled in, I bought a USA Today paper and put the new insert into it. The insert showed the puzzle filled in with the answers. Below the puzzle was this:</p>

    <p class="normal0">14 Down ___&nbsp; ___&nbsp; ___ ,</p>

    <p class="normal0">13 Across ___&nbsp; ___&nbsp; ___&nbsp; ___</p>

    <p class="normal0">12 Across ___</p>

    <p class="normal0">33 Across ___&nbsp; ___&nbsp; ___&nbsp; ___&nbsp; ___</p>

    <p class="normal0">87 Down ___&nbsp; ___ ?</p>

    <p class="normal0">57 Across ___&nbsp; ___&nbsp; ___</p>

    <p class="normal0">The point was that she was supposed to fill in the answers to the clues above. When she did, they spelled out&mldr; T L W,&nbsp; W I L L&nbsp;&nbsp; Y O U&nbsp;&nbsp; M A R R Y&nbsp;&nbsp; M E?&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; M A M</p>

    <p class="normal0">TLW were her initials and MAM were mine. Foolishly, she said &ldquo;yes&rdquor;.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&quot;My most brilliant achievement was my ability to be able to persuade my wife to marry me.&quot; -- Winston Churchill</p>

    <p class="normal0">Many of the answers to the puzzle were related to the theme - JUNEFIRST, SHE, ROMEOANDJULIET, SEX, LOVE, ENGAGEMENT, MARRY, LADY, HEART, BRIDEANDGROOM, SAYYES, WINEANDDINE, WOMEN, DESIANDLUCY, SUGARANDSPICE, RING, HERS, WED, IDO, AMORE, MOON, MAKEAWISH, BELLS and others.</p>

    <p class="normal0">[family_024]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[miscellaneous_002]</p>


  </body>
</html>
