<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>%%title%%</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="normal0">X-Files</p>

    <p class="normal0">Once I was flying into Kansas City from the east. It was nighttime. When flying above the clouds, all you see is stars and maybe another airplane off in the distance. If there are no clouds, you can see the towns and cities as blobs of white lights.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I was sitting by the window on the right side of the plane. I noticed a solid red light at about what would be 1:30 on the clock &ndash; meaning it was about 45 degrees off due west. It appeared to be about the same elevation as our plane. I watched the red light and it kept getting closer and bigger. This was over two-three minutes. It kept getting even closer and even bigger.</p>

    <p class="normal0">It came to the point where I was sure it was going to hit our plane in those last few seconds. Instead it went directly over us and was gone. I couldn&rsquo;t jump to the other side of the plane to watch it fade off in the distance.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I don&rsquo;t know what it was. If it had been a plane, it would have never crossed our path so close and besides, there was only one red light. I never saw an outline of it &ndash; only a red light that got bigger the closer it came to us.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I regret now that I didn&rsquo;t ask the Captain about it. I was pretty young at the time and the older you get, the more you are willing to push the envelope. If it were today, I would demand an explanation. It&rsquo;s impossible IMO that he (they) didn&rsquo;t see what I saw.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I wonder if there is an X-File somewhere in the bowels of government that has a list of these kinds of events&mldr; a file with this very one listed. But, even if there is, if you saw the last scene in Raiders of the Lost Ark, you know the odds of that ever coming to light.</p>


  </body>
</html>
