<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>Duets</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body0">
    <p class="normal0"><h1 class="h1">Music &amp; Poetry</h1><h2 class="h2">Duets</h2></p>

    <p class="normal0">For some strange reason - no doubt the romantic in me - I liked duets - meaning mostly a man and woman. I would say that other than my obsession with <a href="214.01-music__poetry--james_taylor_et_al.xhtml">James Taylor</a>, the duets were about the only other thing that moved me musically in the 1980s and 1990s and so I started collecting them.</p>

    <p class="normal0">This might seem like it wouldn&#x27;t be that hard to do, but in those days even researching what duets had been on the charts or slipped through the cracks... and by who and how to get a copy, etc. was very difficult. Eventually, I ended with 64 (16 per CD) that I liked well enough to include in the collection. I quit adding ten years ago or so and there have been a few more that have come out since. But, this was a collection that I enjoyed putting together even more than I enjoyed listening to. The complete list can be found at the bottom of this page should you ever want to duplicate it.</p>

    <p class="normal0">As a member of our <a href="206-chancel_choir.xhtml">church choir</a> I had opportunities to sing solos in some of the songs. That was rewarding in its own way. However, the most enjoyable songs I sang were over a five-year period when we had a fund-raiser each fall (Dessert Theater). This was a night in which many of us would be involved in different types of skits. Most of the time, singing was part of it. In my case, I performed five consecutive years with five different women in the choir &ndash; all duets. Most of the performances had some element of comedy involved. I assume, of course, that my love affair with duets is why I opted to perform with another woman.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I arranged these so that when they were eventually on four CDs, the first two and last two would be my favorite four on each CD.</p>

    <p class="normal0"><strong class="strong0">Duets I</strong></p>
    <p class="normal0">
        <table border="1" width="100%">
            <tr>
                <td>1. Somewhere Out There</td>
                <td>Linda Ronstadt &amp; James Ingram</td>
                <td>3:57</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 2. Unforgettable</td>
                <td>Natalie Cole &amp; Nat King Cole</td>
                <td>3:28</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 3. Summer Nights</td>
                <td>John Travolta &amp; Olivia Newton John</td>
                <td>3:36</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 4. Beauty and the Beast</td>
                <td>Celine Dion &amp; Peabo Bryson</td>
                <td>4:05</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 5. Always (Atlantic Starr)</td>
                <td>David Lewis &amp; Sharon Bryant</td>
                <td>3:59</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 6. Too Much, Too Little, Too Late</td>
                <td>Johnny Mathis &amp; Denise Williams</td>
                <td>2:56</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 7. Don’t Go Breaking My Heart</td>
                <td>Elton John &amp; Kiki Dee</td>
                <td>4:31</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 8. Sometimes Love Just Ain’t Enough</td>
                <td>Patty Smyth &amp; Don Henley</td>
                <td>4:27</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 9. The Closer I Get To You</td>
                <td>Roberta Flack &amp; Donny Hathaway</td>
                <td>4:40</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>10. Don’t Fall In Love With A Dreamer</td>
                <td>Kenny Rogers &amp; Kim Carnes</td>
                <td>3:40</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>11. Friends And Lovers</td>
                <td>Gloria Loring &amp; Carl Anderson</td>
                <td>3:46</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>12. Can’t We Try</td>
                <td>Dan Hall &amp; Vonda Sheppard</td>
                <td>3:55</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>13. Up Where We Belong</td>
                <td>Joe Cocker &amp; Jennifer Warnes</td>
                <td>3:55</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>14. Baby, It’s Cold Outside</td>
                <td>James Taylor &amp; Natalie Cole</td>
                <td>4:19</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>15. The Music Of The Night</td>
                <td>Barbra Streisand &amp; Michael Crawford</td>
                <td>5:36</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>16. Separate Lives</td>
                <td>Phil Collins &amp; Marilyn Martin</td>
                <td>4:07</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </p>

    <p class="normal0"><strong class="strong0">Duets II</strong></p>
    <p class="normal0">
        <table border="1" width="100%">
            <tr>
                <td>1. Endless Love</td>
                <td>Diana Ross &amp; Lionel Richie</td>
                <td>3:04</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>2. You Don’t Bring Me Flowers</td>
                <td>Barbra Streisand &amp; Neil Diamond</td>
                <td>3:26</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>3. Tonight, I Celebrate My Love</td>
                <td>Peabo Bryson &amp; Roberta Flack</td>
                <td>3:31</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>4. I’m Your Angel</td>
                <td>Celine Dion &amp; R. Kelly</td>
                <td>5:31</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>5. Don’t Know Much</td>
                <td>Linda Ronstadt &amp; Aaron Neville</td>
                <td>3:35</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>6. Almost Paradise</td>
                <td>Mike Reno &amp; Ann Wilson</td>
                <td>3:41</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>7. Your Precious Love</td>
                <td>Marvin Gaye &amp; Tammi Terrell</td>
                <td>3:04</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>8. On My Own</td>
                <td>Patti LaBelle &amp; Michael McDonald</td>
                <td>4:33</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>9. Baby, Come To Me</td>
                <td>Patti Austin &amp; James Ingram</td>
                <td>3:35</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>10. Written In The Stars</td>
                <td>Elton John &amp; LeAnn Rimes</td>
                <td>4:17</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>11. Everything Is Beautiful</td>
                <td>Willie Nelson &amp; Dolly Parton</td>
                <td>3:15</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>12. Nobody Loves Me Like You Do</td>
                <td>Whitney Houston &amp; Jermaine Jackson</td>
                <td>3:49</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>13. I Finally Found Someone</td>
                <td>Bryan Adams &amp; Barbra Streisand</td>
                <td>3:43</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>14. Whenever I Call You “Friend”</td>
                <td>Kenny Loggins &amp; Melissa Manchester</td>
                <td>4:01</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>15. All I Ask Of You</td>
                <td>Michael Crawford &amp; Dale Kristien</td>
                <td>4:25</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>16. Suddenly</td>
                <td>Olivia Newton-John &amp; Cliff Richard</td>
                <td>4:01</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </p>

    <p class="normal0"><strong class="strong0">Duets III</strong></p>
    <p class="normal0">
        <table border="1" width="100%">
            <tr>
                <td>1. When I Fall In Love</td>
                <td>Celine Dion &amp; Clive Griffin</td>
                <td>4:20</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>2. We’ve Got Tonight</td>
                <td>Kenny Rogers &amp; Sheena Easton</td>
                <td>3:50</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>3. All My Life</td>
                <td>Linda Ronstadt &amp; Aaron Neville</td>
                <td>3:30</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>4. If You Say My Eyes Are Beautiful</td>
                <td>Jermaine Jackson &amp; Whitney Houston</td>
                <td>4:20</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>5. You Don’t Have To Be A Star</td>
                <td>Marilyn McCoo &amp; Billy Davis</td>
                <td>3:52</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>6. Leather And Lace</td>
                <td>Stevie Nicks &amp; Don Henley</td>
                <td>3:44</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>7. The Next Time I Fall In Love</td>
                <td>Peter Cetera &amp; Amy Grant</td>
                <td>3:45</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>8. The Last Time I Felt Like This</td>
                <td>Johnny Mathis &amp; Jane Olivor</td>
                <td>2:56</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>9. Where Is The Love</td>
                <td>Roberta Flack &amp; Donny Hathaway</td>
                <td>2:44</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>10. You’re The One That I Want</td>
                <td>John Travolta &amp; Olivia Newton-John</td>
                <td>2:49</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>11. Reunited</td>
                <td>Peaches &amp; Herb</td>
                <td>3:58</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>12. All Of You</td>
                <td>Julio Iglasius &amp; Barbra Streisand</td>
                <td>4:00</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>13. I Hate You Then I Love You</td>
                <td>Celine Dion &amp; Luciano Pavarotti</td>
                <td>4:43</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>14. You’re Lookin’ Like Love To Me</td>
                <td>Peabo Bryson &amp; Roberta Flack</td>
                <td>4:03</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>15. What Kind of Fool</td>
                <td>Barbra Streisand &amp; Barry Gibb</td>
                <td>4:06</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>16. With You I’m Born Again</td>
                <td>Billy Preston &amp; Syreeta</td>
                <td>3:39</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </p>

    <p class="normal0"><strong class="strong0">Duets IV</strong></p>
    <p class="normal0">
        <table border="1" width="100%">
            <tr>
                <td>1. When I Fall In Love</td>
                <td>Natalie Cole &amp; Johnny Mathis</td>
                <td>4:11</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 2. Islands In The Stream</td>
                <td>Dolly Parton &amp; Kenny Rogers</td>
                <td>4:11</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 3. Set The Night To Music</td>
                <td>Roberta Flack &amp; Maxi Priest</td>
                <td>5:23</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 4. Never Gonna Let You Go</td>
                <td>Joe Pizzulo &amp; Leza Miller</td>
                <td>4:15</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 5. Guilty</td>
                <td>Barbra Strisand &amp; Barry Gibb</td>
                <td>4:23</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 6. You And I</td>
                <td>Eddie Rabbitt &amp; Crystal Gayle</td>
                <td>3:58</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 7. After All</td>
                <td>Cher &amp; Peter Cetera</td>
                <td>4:03</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 8. The Time Of My Life</td>
                <td>Bill Medley &amp; Jennifer Warnes</td>
                <td>4:49</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td> 9. Wild Montana Skies</td>
                <td>John Denver &amp; Emmy Lou Harris</td>
                <td>4:09</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>10. Cruisin</td>
                <td>Huey Lewis &amp; Gwyneth Paltrow</td>
                <td>3:35</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>11. I Can’t Help It</td>
                <td>Andy Gibb &amp; Olivia Newton-John</td>
                <td>4:07</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>12. Could I Have This Kiss Forever</td>
                <td>Whitney Houston &amp; Enrique Iglesius</td>
                <td>3:55</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>13. A Whole New World</td>
                <td>Peabo Bryson &amp; Regina Belle</td>
                <td>4:07</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>14. Tonight, You Belong To Me</td>
                <td>Steve Martin &amp; Bernadette Peters</td>
                <td>2:20</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>15. All The Way</td>
                <td>Celine Dion &amp; Frank Sinatra</td>
                <td>3:53</td>
            </tr><tr>
                <td>16. Suddenly Seymour</td>
                <td>Rick Moranis &amp; Ellen Greene</td>
                <td>3:28</td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
