<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>%%title%%</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="normal0">Playground</p>

    <p class="normal0">I claim to have built the best playground for any homeowner in Johnson County, Kansas and maybe the entire state. Apart from Michael Jackson&#x27;s Neverland, I&rsquo;m not sure who had one better.</p>

    <p class="normal0">When I was married the second time, my wife Teri had also been married once before. She had two daughters &ndash; Jaime 8 and Marissa 6. We were married a year after we met and right away I started thinking about a playground in the back yard. Eventually, over the course of many months I designed and created it. I constructed it in three segments which were more or less completely independent of the others. I&rsquo;m extremely proud of the creativity and ingenuity that went into it. It was a great playground for the girls for their childhood.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Jaime just got her masters degree in accounting and Marissa just finished her junior year &ndash; both at Kansas State. So, they no longer use it. However, the neighbors do. There are lots of small children in the immediate neighborhood. It&rsquo;s not uncommon for many of them to be on the playground, but parents are required to watch.</p>

    <p class="normal0">The playground was designed around blue and yellow colors. The club house has a covered portion as you can see below. The clubhouse also has a pull-out table with four small blue and yellow chairs. There are two catwalks elevated above the play area. There are two slides - one long and one short. It includes a disk swing, a bar swing, two regular swings, a hammock, monkey bars, rings, climbing wall with multiple ways of getting up to the top (rope, hand holds, gaps in wood) with a bell at the top to ring, a basketball goal, a rope ladder, a tire swing, a covered porch swing where parents can sit and a blue and yellow plastic box for storing toys. And, the whole thing is on a pit of small gravel. It&#x27;s located in a drainage area so I ran a drain pipe under the playground.</p>

    <p class="normal0">[family_014]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[5_Porch_Swing_Three_Kids]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[2_Club_House__Porch]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[7_Rock_Wal_Jaimel]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[6_Access_Hole_Three_Kids]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[11_Basketball_Marissa]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[12_Monkey_Bars_Jaime]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[15_Slide_Rachel]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[14_Disc_Swing_Jaime]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[10_Hammock_Katie]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[8_Three_Swings]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[4_Tire_Swing_Katy]</p>

    <p class="normal0">[16_Rings_Jaime]</p>


  </body>
</html>
