<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>OJ Justice</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body0">
    <p class="chapter0">OJ Justice</p>

    <p class="normal0">                                 October, 1995</p>

    <p class="normal0">Since the vast majority of white people consider OJ to have been guilty, it stands to reason that the vast majority of white people are disappointed in the decision. In fact, disappointed in law, jury trials, justice, defense attorneys, etc. And, furthermore, most white people probably are not upset just because a guilty man may have gone free &ndash; after all, that happens hundreds of times a week in this country. No, I think they are upset because black people are rejoicing at white people&rsquo;s expense. Whites feel powerless and offended.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I got to thinking about why the black population could feel so good about a probable murderer getting off free. I thought I could never feel okay about achieving a larger good (waking up white society to racism) by sacrificing a blatant wrongdoing at the altar &ndash; even if it was a single event.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Then, I remembered back to Game #6 of the World Series with the Royals versus the Cardinals. I was there. I remember the incredibly bad call in the 9th inning which allowed KC to tie it and win the game, and ultimately, the series. I was still ecstatic quite a few minutes after the umpire blew it when KC scored two runs and won. In fact, I would say it was the single most ecstatic moment of my life. I was not concerned with right or wrong at that time. I didn&rsquo;t care if a mistake had been made. I only cared about the larger good &ndash; The Royals winning.</p>

    <p class="normal0">So, how can you really blame a class of people who (right or wrong) believe that this verdict is infinitely more important as a wake up call to society then as a single event? And, if you do, you must have been the only Royals&rsquo; fan who was disappointed that they won game #6 &ndash; blown call or not. And, if you are that person, you are special.</p>


  </body>
</html>
