<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>%%title%%</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="normal0">Plate Production and PLATE PERFORMANCE</p>

    <p class="normal0">The truth is that there are a thousand formulas for measuring baseball player&rsquo;s production and performance and there are probably multiple ways of explaining or defining the difference between &ldquo;production&rdquor; and &ldquo;performance&rdquor;. Nevertheless, having invented Efficiency Rating for basketball, which is an all-encompassing comprehensive stat to measure the overall value of a player, I decided I could do the same in baseball.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Plate Production (PP) and Plate Performance (PPF) are stats that describe how good is an individual hitter. There are other such formulas. For example, OPS is a common formula for evaluating how effective is a hitter. But, you have to realize that OPS is not even as good as a far less known, far less popular alternative (GPA).</p>

    <p class="normal0">And, trust me, there are others. For the sake of this site and this category, I&rsquo;m only going to discuss Plate Performance against OPS since it is somewhat of a gold standard for overall hitting.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I will get back to Plate Performance (PPF) and OPS shortly, but first let&rsquo;s look at Plate Production (PP).</p>

    <p class="normal0">The difference between PP and PPF is that PP is cumulative while PPF is a ratio . In sports there are cumulative stats &ndash; like Home Runs or Stolen Bases and there are ratio stats like Earned Run Average (Earned Runs / Innings Pitched x 9) or Batting Average (Hits / At-Bats).</p>

    <p class="normal0">PP is a cumulative stat. As I say, baseball has a lot of these for a single season or a career. Home Runs, Hits, Doubles, Stolen Bases, Strike Outs, Wins, Errors, Walks and many more.</p>

    <p class="normal0">To the best of my knowledge of all the all-encompassing stats to describe a hitter&rsquo;s overall value, they are all ratio stats like OPS and none of them are cumulative. That&rsquo;s what makes Plate Performance special.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Suppose I give you these two players&rsquo; stats and ask you to tell me which is superior. Blue numbers are superior between the two players.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&boxdr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxdl; &boxv;Player  &boxv; AB  &boxv;  H  &boxv; 2B  &boxv; 3B  &boxv; HR  &boxv; RBI &boxv;  R  &boxv; SB  &boxv; CS  &boxv; BB  &boxv; SO  &boxv; HBP  &boxv; GDP  &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Smith   &boxv; 501 &boxv; 134 &boxv; 12  &boxv;  0  &boxv; 16  &boxv; 114 &boxv; 86  &boxv;  2  &boxv;  2  &boxv; 62  &boxv; 110 &boxv;  7   &boxv;  26  &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Jones   &boxv; 467 &boxv; 141 &boxv; 10  &boxv;  5  &boxv; 11  &boxv; 60  &boxv; 102 &boxv; 34  &boxv;  8  &boxv; 31  &boxv; 77  &boxv;  1   &boxv;  18  &boxv; &boxur;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxul;</p>

    <p class="normal0">I can tell you right now&mldr; you don&rsquo;t have the faintest idea which is superior because 1) you don&rsquo;t know their names &ndash; which means you can&rsquo;t rely on your bias and 2) there simply is too much data to absorb and wrap your mind around to say definitively which is better.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Besides, irrespective of which of the two you answered, you would have been wrong. I made it such that both players ended up with a PP of +70. Now, isn&#x27;t that a thousand times easier to comprehend than trying to digest all of that data into one rating in your head for each player and then to come to a conclusion about which is superior?</p>

    <p class="normal0">The league average PP for all hitters is around +4. For pitchers, it&rsquo;s about -9. However, for all players combined, the average is roughly zero &ndash; which is just pure coincidence &ndash; but a beautiful fact or an elegant statistic regardless.</p>

    <p class="normal0">PP = Plate Production. Total Bases + Hit by pitch + Walks + Steals + RBI + Runs &ndash; Outs - Caught Stealing - Double Plays Hit Into.</p>

    <p class="normal0">The point is that to the degree a player is greater than zero, he&rsquo;s productive. To the degree he&rsquo;s less than zero, he&rsquo;s unproductive.</p>

    <p class="normal0">As you can imagine, the more a good player plays, the higher his production will be. The more a bad player plays, the lower his production will be.</p>

    <p class="normal0">For 2012 in major league baseball, the top-3 by Plate Production were Mike Trout (+260), Ryan Braun (+254) and Miguel Cabrera (+252). The MVP race in the AL was between Trout and Cabrera. The MVP race in the NL was a battle between Braun and Buster Posey (winner). But, keep in mind that Posey is a catcher and catchers are given more weight by voters because of how hard their job is. In addition, Posey&rsquo;s Giants won 94 games to Braun&rsquo;s Brewers with 83. And, Posey was coming off an injury season &ndash; which gave him sympathy votes while Braun was the NL MVP the year before &ndash; which probably took some votes away. And, finally, Braun was suspected of using performance-enhancing drugs (which later was verified). Even so, the voting was close.</p>

    <p class="normal0">The point is that PP does a great job of identifying the players (by hitting and base running) that are the most productive and the reason is because the formula is good, but also because it is &ldquo;cumulative&rdquor; &ndash; and production (as well as Most Valuable) is mostly a function of cumulative stats versus ratio stats.</p>

    <p class="normal0">The comparable ratio stat to PP is Plate Performance (PPF). Going back to 2012 again, the top-3 by PPF were J.C. Boscan (.360), David Ortiz (.360) and Joey Votto (.356). You should be asking what happened to Trout, Braun and Cabrera?</p>

    <p class="normal0">Well, the problem is that when using ratio stats and no minimum number of at-bats, you get weird things. Boscan only had 10 at-bats! Ortis only had 324 AB and Votto 374 AB. Had all three of them played more, they might have challenged for the MVP.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Baseball is largely about ratio stats, but if you don&rsquo;t play enough games, it&rsquo;s about cumulative stats only. So, let&rsquo;s say we want a minimum of 450 ABs, then the top-3 are Cabrera (.355), Braun (.350) and Trout (.340). All the sudden, there are the three players we were looking for PP &ndash; just in reverse order.</p>

    <p class="normal0">PPF = Plate Performance. (Total Bases + .4 singles + Walks + Hit by pitch) / Plate Appearances / 2.</p>

    <p class="normal0">There really isn&rsquo;t anything to compare my cumulative stat (Plate Production) to that I&rsquo;m aware of. However, Plate Performance is different. I can compare it to OPS for example, and so I shall.</p>

    <p class="normal0">OPS is the sum of On-Base Percentage and Slugging Percentage &ndash; two common ratio stats. OPS means On-base Plus Slugging. It&rsquo;s flawed to some degree because it gives equal weight to OBP and SLG when in reality, OBP should have more weight (about 80% more) than SLG. But, as a back of the envelope stat that is simple to calculate (if you have OBP and SLG), OPS is not bad.</p>

    <p class="normal0">In order to compare OPS to PPF, I need to divide OPS by three and PPF by two. That makes both stats about equivalent to something we can appreciate aesthetically. What I mean is that we are used to thinking that .400 is historical, .300 is good, .200 sucks. Those preconceptions are based upon batting average, but we&rsquo;ve heard those numbers a bazillion times and so we know what they mean. By dividing OPS by three and PPF by two, it puts them in the same range that we are comfortable with.</p>

    <p class="normal0">So, let&rsquo;s apply a minimum number of at-bats to 2012. Let&rsquo;s say 450. Here are the top-10 in the major leagues by both PPF/2 and OPS/3.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&boxdr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxdl; &boxv;Player                 &boxv;Team            &boxv;  League  &boxv;   PPF   &boxv;  Rank  &boxv;  OPS   &boxv; Rank  &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Miguel Cabrera         &boxv;Detroit         &boxv;    AL    &boxv;  .355   &boxv;   1    &boxv;  .333  &boxv;   1   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Ryan Braun             &boxv;Milwaukee       &boxv;    NL    &boxv;  .350   &boxv;   2    &boxv;  .329  &boxv;   2   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Mike Trout             &boxv;LA Angels       &boxv;    AL    &boxv;  .340   &boxv;   3    &boxv;  .321  &boxv;   3   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Andrew McCutchen       &boxv;Pittsburgh      &boxv;    NL    &boxv;  .337   &boxv;   4    &boxv;  .318  &boxv;   5   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Edwin Encarnacion      &boxv;Toronto         &boxv;    AL    &boxv;  .335   &boxv;   5    &boxv;  .314  &boxv;   6   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Buster Posey           &boxv;San Francisco   &boxv;    NL    &boxv;  .334   &boxv;   6    &boxv;  .319  &boxv;   4   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Josh Hamilton          &boxv;Texas           &boxv;    AL    &boxv;  .332   &boxv;   7    &boxv;  .310  &boxv;   8   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Prince Fielder         &boxv;Detroit         &boxv;    AL    &boxv;  .331   &boxv;   8    &boxv;  .313  &boxv;   7   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Robinson Cano          &boxv;NY Yankees      &boxv;    AL    &boxv;  .329   &boxv;   9    &boxv;  .310  &boxv;   9   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Adrian Beltre          &boxv;Texas           &boxv;    AL    &boxv;  .328   &boxv;   10   &boxv;  .307  &boxv;  10   &boxv; &boxur;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxul;</p>

    <p class="normal0">You can see the top-10 are the same. There is very little deviation between them. So, naturally you should ask&mldr; why have PPF when OPS is readily available?</p>

    <p class="normal0">The only answer I can give for that, other than the fact that I invented it, is that PPF more closely corresponds to PP and PP is great. This correlation is more apparent beyond the top-10, but let&rsquo;s look at the same top-10 players and include PP&rsquo;s ranking.</p>

    <p class="normal0">&boxdr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhd;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxdl; &boxv;Player                 &boxv;      PPF       &boxv;   Rank   &boxv;   OPS   &boxv;  Rank  &boxv;   PP   &boxv; Rank  &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Miguel Cabrera         &boxv;      .355      &boxv;    1     &boxv;  .333   &boxv;   1    &boxv;  252   &boxv;   3   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Ryan Braun             &boxv;      .350      &boxv;    2     &boxv;  .329   &boxv;   2    &boxv;  254   &boxv;   2   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Mike Trout             &boxv;      .340      &boxv;    3     &boxv;  .321   &boxv;   3    &boxv;  260   &boxv;   1   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Andrew.McCutchen       &boxv;      .337      &boxv;    4     &boxv;  .318   &boxv;   5    &boxv;  206   &boxv;   6   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Edwin Encarnacion      &boxv;      .335      &boxv;    5     &boxv;  .314   &boxv;   6    &boxv;  214   &boxv;   4   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Buster Posey           &boxv;      .334      &boxv;    6     &boxv;  .319   &boxv;   4    &boxv;  172   &boxv;   9   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Josh Hamilton          &boxv;      .332      &boxv;    7     &boxv;  .310   &boxv;   8    &boxv;  212   &boxv;   5   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Prince Fielder         &boxv;      .331      &boxv;    8     &boxv;  .313   &boxv;   7    &boxv;  183   &boxv;   7   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Robinson Cano          &boxv;      .329      &boxv;    9     &boxv;  .310   &boxv;   9    &boxv;  160   &boxv;  10   &boxv; &boxvr;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvh;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxvl; &boxv;Adrian Beltre          &boxv;      .328      &boxv;    10    &boxv;  .307   &boxv;   10   &boxv;  160   &boxv;  11   &boxv; &boxur;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxhu;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&HorizontalLine;&boxul;</p>

    <p class="normal0">In the five cases where PPF and OPS disagree (bolded), PP agrees more with PPF three times and OPS twice.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Do I have a problem with anyone using OPS. Of course not. I use it, but most of the reason I use it is because it&rsquo;s so readily available and sortable either on MLB.com or BaseballReference. But, I also know that OPS is not technically correct because it undervalues OBP. Even so, as we can see, it still tends to do a good job.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Whether PPF ever catches on or not is not a big deal. Clearly OPS works fine. But, PP should catch on because there simply isn&rsquo;t a cumulative comprehensive all-encompassing stat for major league baseball players that I&rsquo;m aware of&mldr; and there should be.</p>


  </body>
</html>
