<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>Sports and Race</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body0">
    <p class="normal0"><h1 class="h1">Sports and Race</h1></p>

    <p class="normal0">I want to begin this discussion by stating emphatically that I have zero bias regarding black or white or Hispanic players in sports. Besides, if I did&mldr; or you do since I don&rsquo;t matter anymore&mldr; it would be an outdated bias due to the fact that a larger and larger percentage of births are by mixed races. Someday, we&rsquo;ll all be just different percentages of the same mutt!</p>

    <p class="normal0">Many of my all-time favorite sports stars are white and many are black. I only wrote about one specific favorite player on this blog &ndash; Kevin Johnson (see category to the left). He&rsquo;s black. So, I don&rsquo;t want to hear anything about me having a bias when it comes to color of an athlete. Of course, I won&rsquo;t hear it anyway since I&rsquo;m dead, but&mldr; I&rsquo;ll make sure your doors creak the rest of your life.</p>

    <p class="normal0">I&rsquo;m not going to write a single new word after this paragraph. The following is a compilation of letters-to-the-editor that I wrote in the 1980&rsquo;s and 1990&rsquo;s as well as one magazine artice. I was going through that file which contained dozens of letters that were printed in either the Topeka Capital Journal or the Kansas City Star/Times as well as articles I&rsquo;ve written for magazines. I thought they were all good, but there wasn&rsquo;t a place on this site for most of them. Since several involved race, I put them in the same file and decided to place them here. Posted chronologically.</p>

    <p class="normal0">Jimmy The Greek, 1988</p>

    <p class="normal0">RACE, 1989</p>

    <p class="normal0">OJ Justice, 1995</p>

    <p class="normal0">Standing for the National Anthem, 1996</p>
  </body>
</html>
