<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>BBH Quotes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body0">
    <p class="normal0"><h1 class="h1">BBH Quotes</h1></p>

    <p class="normal0">BASKETBALL HEAVEN is thorough, fresh and occasionally brilliant. Manley&#x27;s systematic analysis of basketball from the time of George Mikan to the present is unlike anything I&#x27;ve ever seen about the sport. His research is massive, his writing lucid and his approach novel. -- Bill James, Baseball Abstract</p>

    <p class="normal0">I think Martin Manley is Bill James&#x27; pen name -- Dan Patrick, CNN Sports</p>

    <p class="normal0">Because of its original perspective, BASKETBALL HEAVEN provides statistical insights and food for thought which will enhance the enjoyment of the game for even the most devoted NBA fan. -- David Stern, NBA Commissioner</p>

    <p class="normal0">Martin Manley&#x27;s BASKETBALL HEAVEN is an enjoyable, informative and useful compilation of NBA teams, players and statistics. A must read for the serious fan. -- Rick Barry, WTBS Sports</p>

    <p class="normal0">BASKETBALL HEAVEN broke new ground in looking at the game we love. The way we will look at pro basketball in the next century began with THIS book. -- Wayne Patterson, Basketball Hall of Fame</p>

    <p class="normal0">If Martin Manley played hoops like he researches the game, he&#x27;d be Larry Bird, Magic Johnson and Michael Jordan put together. Heaven is my bible. I wish I could memorize it. -- Pat O&#x27;Brien, CBS Sports</p>

    <p class="normal0">At that time of year when I&#x27;m about to get ready for basketball again, Martin Manley&#x27;s BASKETBALL HEAVEN arrives and primes me for another great year. It truly has become the basketball bible. -- Frank Layden, Utah Jazz</p>

    <p class="normal0">BASKETBALL HEAVEN is well thought out, very well organized. The type of information not found anywhere else. Basketball has needed a book like this for a long time and Manley finally gives it to us. Some of his facts were revelations to me and I consider myself an expert. It is one of the main refrence books I use on a regular basis. -- David DuPree, USA Today</p>

    <p class="normal0">I love BASKETBALL HEAVEN. It&#x27;s indispensable for the serious fan. A must for every library. -- Bob Ley, ESPN</p>

    <p class="normal0">The facts and figures are presented in a way which gives the true fanatic more than any box score. Martin Manley isn&#x27;t satisfied with the what. He takes great pains to develop the why. I wouldn&#x27;t dream of starting any season without BASKETBALL HEAVEN. -- Fred Hickman, CNN Sports</p>

    <p class="normal0">If you like pro basketball and you love statistics, this is a don&#x27;t miss book. Manley combines the keen insight and understanding of an expert analyst with the sheer love of a pure fan. -- Alex Saschare, NBA Offices</p>
  </body>
</html>
